Good afternoon.
This is 618 Distributed
Computing Made Easy with Xgrid.
And I am David Kramer.
I'm the engineering manager
for the Xgrid group.
We're having a little bit of fun
with the names down at the bottom.
There are two of us in the Xgrid group,
David Kramer and David Kramer.
There will be a test at the end.
Don't get us confused.
So this is the first session after lunch.
We're going to do a
little bit of an exercise.
How many folks here have downloaded
and/or played with Xgrid?
Raise your hand.
How many folks have not
downloaded or placed XGrid?
OK, so we've all just done a
distributed computing problem,
an embarrassingly parallel one,
and we'll get to that.
Thank you very much for the input.
So what we're going to talk
about today-- XGrid is Apple's
solution for cluster computing.
And we believe that it helps
make distributed computing easy,
although full disclosure,
"easy" is a little bit
of a relative term,
of course, but significantly easier
than it's been in the past.
And most importantly,
you can today start using the
technology preview of XGrid,
as well as what is going
to be coming with Tiger,
to start grid enabling your
applications and your workflows,
whether you're an engineer
or a user of the technology.
Today we're going to talk
about the system architecture
and a general overview of the
capabilities and how XGrid works.
We'll talk about some new APIs that
we'll be introducing with Tiger,
the Grid Foundation APIs,
and then discuss how you can
use those in your applications,
as well as some of the other components
of XGrid to grid enable your workflow.
So let's get started with the overview.
We had a couple of goals with Xgrid.
So we wanted to make distributed
computing painless and easy.
And by easy, we mean easy to install,
configure, use.
You obviously have to have enough of a
brain to understand some of the concepts,
but you shouldn't have to have
that much brain and fingers to
go through all of the pain of
setting up 10 different computers,
1,000 different computers.
We want to take care of
the hard things for you.
Secondly, it should be non-intrusive.
One of the goals we have with
Xgrid is to be able to do
what we call desktop recovery.
That is to take advantage of some
of the unused CPU resources that
are sitting around your environment.
And if that caused your friend or
colleague or student's computer to crash,
or if they noticed that there was
something wrong or the behavior
was a little bit different,
that would be a bad thing.
So we want to make sure
we don't mess that up,
obviously.
And we want to solve a range of
problems with a range of architectures.
We sort of glibly say from
Beowulf to SETI at home.
That is from pretty massively
parallel kinds of problems to
very highly distributed problems.
And we'll We'll go through a
couple of examples of that.
Our target customers for these
products are really scientists,
engineers, and creative professionals.
Those are the people who really
can take advantage because those
are the people who have the kinds
of problems that take a long,
long, long time to execute and tend
to be somewhat parallelizable.
And again, we'll talk about those
problems in a moment.
In support of those folks are
typically the software developers and
system administrators who need tools
to help them solve their problems.
So hopefully you fit into one
or perhaps more of those camps.
If not, hopefully you'll learn something
here that will be just fun
and interesting to use anyway.
So we solve two primary
classes of problems with Xgrid.
First of all, what we call embarrassingly
parallel problems,
problems that are fairly easy to visible
where I have the same executable that
I just want to run on lots of different
machines with slightly different
or maybe vastly different inputs.
And then I want to collect
together the outputs.
Maybe I'm looking for a single output.
Sort of a needle in the
haystack kind of problem.
Or I want to collapse together
all the different outputs.
Or I just want to go off and process
something and get the result back.
A good example of that is like
I have a batch image filter
and thousands of images I want
to apply that same filter to.
Maybe I want to make a thumbnail,
for example, or something like that.
I can use the services of Xgrid to
distribute that work across a large
number of computers so that I don't
have to sit and wait for it to get done.
So that's what we call embarrassingly
parallel or embarrallel problems.
A second class of problems that Xgrid is
good for are tightly coupled problems.
So that's what we call embarrassingly
parallel or embarrallel problems.
These tend to be more
in the science domains,
physics and simulation kinds of problems.
These are problems that you have
to think really hard about and
how to parallelize your algorithm.
And then use tools, things like MPI,
we'll talk a little bit
about that later as well,
to enable these massively
parallel communications between
different nodes in the cluster.
So this is not sort of I have an
image and I want to just transform it.
This is I have a simulation
problem where this proton is
hitting that proton is hitting
this proton is hitting that proton.
And I want to make sure
that I get that right.
the math right across a
large number of computers.
We can help you there too.
That's the message.
So how do we accomplish that?
What's the basic functionality
that you'll get as part of Xgrid
or that you do get now in the TP2?
First and foremost,
we collect all the nodes and group
them together into a cluster.
We should back up for a second.
We use the term grid and cluster
somewhat interchangeably.
In the sort of more
in-depth grid cluster world,
there are slightly different definitions
that may be important to you.
In this case,
we're just talking about perhaps
different kinds of computers.
In any case, we gather them all up
together and identify them,
bring them together in one spot
so that you can start adding
work to each of those computers.
And then we identify a queue of
jobs and perhaps subtasks of each
job that we're going to be doling
out to each of those computers.
We manage and monitor the availability
of those computers and then,
of course,
dole out the tasks to each of them
as the fastest one becomes available.
David will talk a little
bit more about scheduling.
And we make sure that the right
executables are on the right nodes.
So that's an important task
that's often overlooked.
It's interesting if you actually
step back and look at what
people who run clusters do.
A very relatively small percentage
of their time is spent doing the
interesting parallel cluster work.
And a very large percentage of
their time is doing just almost
mind-numbing system administration
because I got to do it on node one and
node two and node three and node four.
So we really want to help you with that.
And one concrete thing we
do right now is distribute,
if you want it to,
the executables around and the data
sets around to all of the nodes that
are going to be doing the computation.
And then of course we gather up
the output from the results from
each of those nodes and bring
it back to the client machine.
And we'll talk a little bit
more about how that works too.
So history of how we got to this point.
As you can see here,
we released a technology preview one,
and then fairly recently,
a technology preview two of this.
We've been trying to develop this
project somewhat in the open and
gather feedback from the community,
because many of our customers have
very specialized kinds of tasks,
and we want to make sure that the
tool is applicable to those tasks.
Today we're at WWDC,
and we'll be talking about
features of the Xgrid that will
be part of Tiger and Tiger Server,
especially.
[Transcript missing]
Hi, so I'm David Kraemer.
I'm Xgrid engineer.
So the Xgrid system
architecture has three tiers.
There's a client, a controller,
and agents.
And the agents are the
ones that do the work.
The client is the one that
has the work to be done.
The controllers are in the middle
to make sure everything's going
the way it's supposed to go.
So the way it works is the client
submits a job to the controller.
The controller takes this job,
splits it up into tasks.
This isn't really that fancy or exciting.
What's happening is that a
job is just a list of tasks.
So it splits it up and starts
scheduling it on the available
computational resources,
the agents.
So the agents start to compute the tasks,
and as they finish,
the results go back to the controller.
And the controller collects
them all and sends them back as
the job results to the client.
So why have three tiers?
Traditionally you might
imagine having two tiers,
where you have a client and then
you have the computational agents.
And you send out the work
and you get the results.
But there's situations in which that's
not the way you want it to work,
especially if you have clients
that aren't always online,
for example laptops,
and you want to submit a job and
it's going to take a day to run.
You don't want to have to
leave your laptop plugged in,
you want to take it home.
So the controller is there to
keep track of what's going on to
make sure it all gets done and
to collect the results for you.
When you come back the next day,
you can get the results.
It also allows you to
have multiple agents,
multiple clients,
and they all confine each
other by way of the controller.
It also supports a variety of
distributed computing styles.
So in one case, you could have a
dedicated rack of XSERVs,
and they just sit in the closet,
and they're always being
used for computational tasks.
Or you might just have some iMacs
and some laptops sitting around
that sometimes are plugged in,
and sometimes they're
used by their users,
just sitting there idle.
And so you can recover these
resources at night or at lunch or
whenever they're not being used.
So the first tier is the client tier.
You can either create an application
using the Cocoa framework
and have that be a client,
and with TP2 there is an application
called Xgrid that is that kind of client.
Or you can use the command line tool,
Xgrid, to submit jobs, monitor the grid,
and get your results.
So that's basically all there is to it,
submitting, monitoring, and retrieving.
The agent on the other side of the
three tiers is a background daemon.
It is configured with preferences.
There's a plist file.
There's some scripts to
start and stop the agent.
You can run it in dedicated mode,
like on the XSERVs,
or you can run it in screensaver mode.
In that mode,
it only accepts computational
tasks when the computer is idle.
So the controller in the middle
is also a background daemon.
It's a server.
It listens on a socket and accepts
connections from agents and clients.
It handles all the resource
management and scheduling,
monitors the agents, accepts the jobs,
splits them up,
submits them to the agents,
collects the results,
and returns them to the client.
There's also a limited controller
built into the client framework.
This means you don't get the
benefits of three tiers now.
You've just reduced it
down to a two-tier system,
but what you gain is you don't
need a dedicated controller.
So you can just walk up to a network
that has some agents on it and start
submitting jobs and getting results.
But again, if you need to go home and
take your laptop home with you,
you're not going to be able to
continue doing the work because
there's no dedicated controller.
So the controller does
all the scheduling,
as I said.
And so the scheduler knows about files,
jobs, tasks, and nodes.
It schedules the jobs as they come in,
they're in a queue.
And it takes the one off
the top of the queue,
looks at what tasks it has to be done,
and sends them off to the
fastest available computer.
It's also fault tolerant,
which means that if one of the agents
goes offline while it's doing the work,
the controller will notice this
and will reschedule the work
on the next available agent.
The scheduler also handles dependencies,
which means that jobs or tasks
can depend on arbitrary URIs,
universal resource identifiers.
Each job, and each task,
and each data set is given a
unique resource identifier.
And so in the first example here,
you can have a job depend on another job.
So you have a second
job here with two tasks,
and none of those tasks will
run until all three tasks open.
In the second case, you have one job,
but it has these five tasks,
and the first task runs.
This might be a preprocessing task.
And then the next three tasks
will run once that one completes,
and those are doing the work.
And then the final task won't run until
all of the rest of the tasks finish,
and that could be your
post-processing stage.
So the Xgrid software
architecture looks like this.
You've got the daemons and
the applications up top,
and they're all built on the
XG framework and the XG protocol.
And that, in turn,
is built upon the Blocks
Extensible Exchange Protocol,
RFC 3080.
And all of this is built
on top of BSD sockets,
the core foundation libraries,
and the foundation framework.
So in Xgrid,
various aspects of the communication
that are important to note are that the
controller advertises via rendezvous.
And the controller is the only tier
that actually accepts connections.
It's the server.
So the agents and the clients
sit around browsing for services,
and when they find a controller,
the agent automatically connects to
the controller that it's configured.
to connect to.
So the agent and the client can
be configured to either connect
to a Rendezvous service name,
or you can just use standard
host names or IP addresses.
And so you can do this on a
local subnet with Rendezvous,
or you can do this across the Internet.
Another thing to note is the
agents and the clients leave the
connection open after they've
connected to the controller,
and this allows for asynchronous
peer-to-peer communication.
So any time an event occurs to the job,
when the job completes,
the client is immediately notified.
There's no polling.
So the controller stores and streams the
data from the agent and to the client.
So this means that as the agent is
running the task and generating output,
that gets streamed back to the controller
while the task is still running.
And that is then, in turn,
streamed back to the client.
So you can start getting results
before your tasks have completed.
And then one more note about MPI that
is a little bit tricky is that
when we run an MPI task with XGrid,
you don't know ahead of time which
computers you are going to run on
because that's managed by the controller.
So you just submit the job.
And then the controller schedules it.
And there's some communication
that occurs between the nodes at
this point to find each other.
And the master node collects all the
IP addresses and saves it to disk and
then runs the actual MPI executable
which uses that configuration file to
connect to all the rest of the processes
that are running on the other agents.
So there's two models
for security in Xgrid.
The first is the ad hoc model,
and this is what you see in
the technical preview two.
It's password-based
mutual authentication.
So if you want to have
someone join your grid,
you can tell them,
or they can tell you the
password for their agent,
and then you can allow your
controller to connect to it.
There's also,
the second model is the managed security,
and this is where all of the components,
the client controller and the agent,
are bound to an open directory
administrative domain.
So there's the same set of
users on all these computers.
In both of these models,
the agent and controller
can be protected.
What that means,
what we're protecting against
here is unauthorized use.
So the agent can be configured
to only allow connections
from trusted controllers,
and the controller can be
configured to only allow connections
from trusted controllers.
So the agent can be configured
to only allow connections
from trusted controllers,
and the controller can be
configured to only allow connections
from trusted controllers.
And in that way,
you are assured that you're not
doing work for someone who's not
authorized to use the resources.
So in the ad hoc security,
the communication occurs in the clear,
although it may be encrypted in SSL.
But at no point are
passwords sent in the clear.
There's a two-way random protocol
used to make sure that it's
unintelligible to packet snippers.
The agent runs tasks as an
unprivileged user because there's
no sense of shared users here.
So what this means is that if you're
running a computational task on this
agent in an ad hoc security mode,
that you don't get any
connections to the Windows server,
you don't have a home directory,
and so you only get world
access to the files on the disk.
So this means you can
write into slash TMP,
you can read some various public
system configuration files,
but you don't have the ability to read
private files in home directories.
In the managed security case,
all the components, as I said,
are bound to open directory,
and so the agent can run
tasks as a privileged user,
and this would be useful to
run the tasks as the person
who initially submitted them.
So this requires
delegation of credentials,
but it allows you to access
home and network directories
as the user who submitted them,
so you don't have to make all
of your files world readable and
world writable to have them be
used in a distributed computation.
So next,
I would like to talk to you about how to
actually develop using the Xgrid APIs.
So first, there's the Xgrid command
line tool that you can use.
And you can use this from shell scripts.
You can use this from your
applications in Cocoa using nstask,
any way you want to do it.
What you do is you factor
your computational code into
a command line executable,
and then you use Xgrid to
submit this--to submit a job.
You can include the executable
with the job if it's not already
installed on the remote computers.
And then you can collect the results.
And you can do all this
with the command line tool,
and I'll show you an example in a moment.
And so that is how the Blender example
that David talked about was done.
You can also integrate
Xgrid with your application,
so you don't have to write a new
application or write a shell script.
You can just link in the Cocoa framework
and then use it to distribute the
tasks when the grid's available
and monitor the status of your
work and retrieve the results.
So as you've probably caught on to now,
the lifecycle of job
is that you submit it,
you monitor it, and you get the results.
And that's the theme
of the talk here today.
So the command line example here.
First, you submit the job.
And so in this case,
we're running the CAL program,
which prints out a calendar.
And we're saying we want June 2004.
And so you submit it,
and what gets returned
is a job identifier.
And with that job identifier,
you can retrieve the status of the job.
So in this case,
we're getting back the status
and we see when the job started,
when it was submitted
and what its status is.
In this case,
the job has already finished.
It didn't take very long.
It is just putting out
a calendar after all.
And so we'd like to retrieve the
results which we do like this.
And so again,
you use that same identifier that
was returned in the submission
and it just prints out the
results to send it out here.
And then you delete the job because
the job sticks around in case there's
an error retrieving the results.
The job doesn't get
automatically deleted.
You have to explicitly
delete it yourself.
So the Grid Foundation APIs contain
a number of classes,
and I'll talk about them
in detail in a minute.
But this is the big list.
The one you notice here is XGResource,
which is the base class for a
lot of these other classes here.
The XGResource classes all represent
a remote resource that you're
monitoring with your application.
So they act as proxy objects.
So they aren't the actual job,
they aren't the actual node
that lives in the controller.
They are your sort of
view onto those things.
So, using the client APIs,
what you begin with is you connect
using the XG connection object,
and you authenticate using
the XG authenticator object.
And then you create a job first
by creating a specification
of what that job entails,
and that would be the command and the
arguments and what files it depends on.
And then you create a submission
using that specification
and submit the submission.
And then as that -- if
that submission succeeds,
you receive back an XG job object.
You then can monitor the job using
action monitors and the related object,
the update monitor.
And so you use these to get your
asynchronous callback to find out when
the status of the job has changed.
And then finally, when you're ready to
download the results,
you use the XG file download object.
which allows you to retrieve the results.
So first of all,
you want to connect and authenticate.
So use the connection,
and we use a subclass of XG Authenticator
in the technical preview called
the Two-Way Random Authenticator.
So first you create the connection.
In this case, we're using a host
name and a port number,
and zero means use the
default port number.
You can also use an NSNet service
if you're using rendezvous and
you've browsed for a service.
And then you create an authenticator,
set the username and set the password.
You may get these from Keychain.
And then you set the
authenticator on the connection,
and you tell it to open.
Which we do right here.
And so before you do that,
you create a grid controller,
which is a subclass of XGResource.
So it's your view into the controller
that's running on another computer.
And so you create the controller object,
you set yourself as the delegate
so you can get callbacks when
interesting events occur,
and then you set the connection on
the controller when you initialize it,
and you open the connection.
Then you'd like to know when
you've actually found out what
the grid controller is doing,
what tasks it's running,
what jobs it's running,
what file sets it's aware of,
which nodes it's aware of.
And so you ask the grid
controller to update,
and you get back an
update monitor object.
And then when you'd like to know when
that update has succeeded or failed,
your delegate will get a callback.
So here's the callback,
the update monitor,
resource did update method that
your delegate should implement.
And so in this case,
we check to see that the
resource is the grid controller,
and if so, we see if the grid
controller is available.
And again, if it is, we call a method,
which I'll describe in a minute,
submit job.
And that isn't part of the API.
This is a method that you
would implement yourself.
So when you submit a job,
you use the specification object,
XG specification, and use XG submission,
and again,
you use XG controller many times.
So to create a specification,
first you need the job info.
And so rather than showing you some
code on how to create this dictionary,
I'm showing you the
actual property list here.
So info dictionary
contains a job dictionary,
contains information
about the default task.
And so these are parameters
that apply to all the tasks.
And then you actually
have a list of your tasks.
So in this case,
we want all of the tasks to
use cal as the executable,
but each task should have a
different set of arguments.
And in this case,
we're getting June 2004 and June 2005.
And then the type of this
job is unordered tasks.
The scheduler is free to run
these in any order simultaneously,
sequentially,
whatever it needs to do to make
the best use of the resources.
So with this job info,
we create a job specification.
So you can imagine that that info
dictionary would be returned by
the job specification info method
in the second line of this method.
So you create the specification
object using a type,
the info, an application identifier,
and application info.
The application identifier and info
are completely uninterpreted by Xgrid.
They're just there so you can sort them.
So with this job information,
you can filter out jobs so that
you only look at jobs that you've
submitted and that you don't have
to worry about jobs that have
been submitted by other clients.
And the application info would be sort
of information about the job that's
not relevant to how Xgrid uses it,
but is relevant to how you might
want to process it when it's done.
So using that job specification
that we created in that method,
you then create a job submission
and a job submission monitor.
And so you set yourself
as a delegate on this,
and when the submission
succeeds or fails,
you will get a callback.
So here we see the callback.
Again, it's the submission monitor
resource did submit.
And we check to see that it's the
submission monitor we're expecting.
And we take the resource,
which we expect to be a job in this case,
because we're submitting a
specification with a type of job.
And with this job,
we tell it to update continuously.
We don't want to just find
out what it's doing right now.
We want to know everything
that happens to it from now
until we don't care anymore,
until the job is done.
So, we get a job update monitor object
and we set ourselves as the delegate.
So we've now submitted the job,
and it's time to monitor
it to see what happens.
So we're going to use the
action monitor classes.
We're going to use the job, task, node,
and node list objects to
monitor what's going on with
the grid while this is running.
So the XG Grid Controller object
can be used to get a list of
all these other resources.
The NodeList object is used
to get a list of the nodes.
So NodeList is you might consider
is kind of like a virtual cluster.
It's just a collection of nodes that
are meaningfully grouped together.
So you can submit jobs to run on
specific NodeLists or you can submit
jobs to just run on all of the nodes.
And then the nodes actually the
XG Node object actually contains
the information about the node
such as how many processors it has,
how fast it is, that kind of thing.
So when you're monitoring a job,
you of course use the submission
object to first get the job,
and then you use the job object
to get a list of the tasks.
And that is available once
the job has started running.
And then with these XG task objects,
you wait until they're done executing,
and then you can retrieve the results.
So, first thing,
it's waiting for the job to update.
And again, we use this update monitor,
resource that update method.
And here we check to see
if the resource is the job.
And if the job is finished,
we retrieve the tasks.
So this is what retrieving
the tasks looks like.
You ask the job for a list of tasks,
and then you walk through that
list and ask each task to update,
and you would want to
set the delegate on that,
too.
So when you get the callback,
you're going to want to
retrieve the results.
And to do that,
you're going to use XG file
and XG file download.
So as I mentioned before,
you get the standard output and
the error streams from a task.
And these are treated as files,
special files,
files that have no attributes.
So you still use the XG file
object to retrieve these streams.
An XG file is a reference to a
file's attributes and content.
It's not the actual content itself.
To get the content,
you use the XG file download object.
And this lets you do an
asynchronous download of the file
from the controller to the client.
And you can download either
into memory or onto disk.
You might want to download into
memory if you wanted to do some
further processing on this data
immediately display to the user.
And you might want to save it
to disk if it's really large.
If you're downloading
four gigabytes of output,
clearly, you probably don't want to load
it all into memory just so that
you can save it to disk later.
So you can download directly to disk.
And the XG file download object
can also be used to begin
downloading standard output of a
task that hasn't completed yet.
It will just continue downloading,
and if there's no more output ready
but the task is still running,
it'll just wait for more output.
So here's an example of how
to start downloading files.
First,
you get the output files from the task,
and then you enumerate them,
and we'll walk through them.
But before we do that,
we create a base path,
and this is where we're going
to be saving all the results.
So
For each file, we create a file path by
using the path of the file,
which is probably in most
cases just a file name,
just one file name,
and we append that to the end
of the results directory path.
And then we create a file download
object with the output file,
and we set a delegate,
and then we set a destination for
where we want this file download to go.
And finally, we need to retain this
file download object.
So we have a set here,
and we just add the file download
to the file download set.
And we properly manage our memory.
So when the file download finishes,
the delegate gets this callback.
And so we make sure it's one of the file
downloads that we're paying attention to.
And we remove it from our set.
And then if there's no
more file downloads left,
we know that we've successfully
downloaded all of the files.
And so we're ready to notify the user
that the job results have all been saved.
And at this point,
I would like to turn over to
Charles Parnot to talk about actually
using Xgrid to fit biochemical models.
I would like to thank David to give
me the opportunity to talk here.
So I want to present to you
today some of the work that
I'm doing in Brian Kobilka's
lab in Stanford University.
And I will start with a short
introduction with quite a bit of
biology to explain to you our scientific
goal and the kind of biophysical studies
we're doing to achieve these goals.
And then I'll turn to the challenge
that we're now facing in terms of
data analysis and how we use Xgrid
to try to deal with this challenge.
You probably all know that the
brain regulates the heart activity
by releasing adrenaline to it,
particularly when you're
a little stressed,
like I am right now.
But what you probably don't
know is that the adrenaline is
actually released by the neurons
at the surface of the heart cells.
And the adrenaline is recognized there
by the beta-2 adrenergic receptor.
And this is the receptor
we are interested in.
This receptor is a protein
with a very precise 3D shape,
and here's a schematic of it.
So on the top is the outside of the cell.
That's where the adrenaline comes from.
And when the adrenaline binds,
the receptor goes through a series
of changes in shape in 3D structure
through a series of states.
And we want to really understand
this process because this is what
ultimately regulates the heart rate.
And if we understand these changes,
we'll be able to develop
new drugs for heart disease.
So the question we're
asking are quite simple.
Is this model true?
And if it is true,
how many states do we have?
And how fast are the transitions?
And the way we try to answer this
question is by using fluorescent
probes that we can attach at a very
precise location in the receptor.
And then the nice thing with
these probes is that each state
then has different brightness.
One state, one brightness.
And we can monitor the transitions.
And I imagine you put several
trillions of these molecules in a tube,
and you're measuring the
average fluorescence of all
this population of receptor.
And here is some real data
obtained in the lab where you have
fluorescence as a function of time
where you add the drug at time zero,
and you can generate more data
by using different concentration.
So now back to the model.
This is the model I showed you before.
What we really want to do is
take this data in green and try
to fit it with the model in red.
For that, we have an OSDN application
that we have written to do the
simulation and the fitting.
But the problem that we
rapidly faced is that we have
really many parameters to fit.
So for each state, as I told you,
we have a different brightness.
And then for each reaction,
back and forth, we have a different rate.
So here's the problem.
We have many parameters to fit.
And then when you do a fit like this,
you want to give the
computer an initial guess,
an initial values that's not too far from
the actual best fit that you can find.
And this is very difficult
with so many parameters.
So it boils down to one simple problem.
We have a very large parameter
space that somehow we need to scan.
And this means a lot of computer time.
To address this problem, of course,
we opted for Xgrid to dispatch the work,
the load, onto several computers.
And the reason why we
turned to Xgrid was,
first of all,
because we're no cluster experts.
So that saved us a lot of time,
because Xgrid is really
easy to install and to use.
And then we have a typically,
embarrassingly problem,
because we just want to
run many independent fits,
each with different starting values.
And finally, we already had a
MacOSX application written,
so that meant very little additional
code to write with some familiar APIs.
This application, Biokin,
has a Cocoa-based graphical front-end,
and there's also a common
version of it that we bundled
into the application package.
So here is how the tasks were
designed to run in Xgrid.
Each parameter was sampled over
a reasonable range of values.
Then each combination of the
parameters constitutes a set
of starting values for one fit.
Then each one task, so one Xgrid agent,
typically consists of about 100 fits.
And the positive results can be selected
based on the threshold set by the user.
We first implemented this
using the technology preview 2
with the plugin architecture.
So we had to use a different format for
the jobs that could be created inside
a main application that could then
be read and processed by the plugin,
saved back to the file,
and then could be displayed and analyzed
further on the main application.
Now we are implementing the new
version of it with the Xgrid framework,
which makes a much simpler and
much better integration of the
Biokin code with the Xgrid code.
We have this command line tool that is
on the application package that we can
use to submit a job that contains this
executable together with a temporary
file that contains the description
of the fits that we want to run.
Of course, that's just one job,
and what we do is we send several
hundreds of these jobs to xGrid that
then takes care of dispatching the jobs
to all the agents as David showed you.
And xGrid also takes care of retrieving
the successful jobs and sends them
back to the application for further
analysis and to display the results.
So far, using XGrid,
we've been able to test really
extensively those two models
that we call the three-states
model and the four-states model.
And it was a big surprise for us,
because we were not able to fit the data.
But because we used XGrid and
we did all this computation,
we're really sure that
those models don't fit.
We have scanned the
parameter space extensively.
So we can now dismiss those models.
And this is already a very
important result for us,
a surprising result,
but an important result.
And of course,
now we are testing other models.
So I want to thank the people in my lab,
particularly Brian, Gayatri, Xavier,
and Aaron,
which were very helpful for this project.
But I also want to thank all
the people in Stanford that have
contributed-- they are listed here--
that contributed the CPU to the cluster.
And finally I want to thank all
the people around the world that
have contributed to this project.
And this has been really amazing.
Now we're reaching 40 gigahertz,
actually.
And so I want to thank them all,
and maybe some of you are in the room.
And I want to encourage
you to join the cluster,
send me an email.
And finally, all of this wouldn't have
been possible without XGrid.
So thank you, Apple.
Thank you, David.
And thank you, David.
So, I just wanted to, I love this slide,
I absolutely love this slide.
The first time when
Charles sent me his slides,
I saw this one.
I knew right away,
and I forwarded it off to
David and to Richard Crandall,
who was sort of the
originator of this thinking,
that we had essentially achieved the,
if you will,
SETI at home for the rest of us.
This is something that Charles,
who as you can tell is a scientist,
he has a task he's trying to get done.
He is not interested in doing
distributed computation from the inside.
He's interested in using the
capabilities of doing distributed
computation to solve his task.
He managed to assemble this amazing
grid of people through a bunch of
essentially social engineering,
sending out a really nice email
message to his friends and their
friends and their friends and so on,
and built himself a 40 gigahertz
cluster just by being a nice guy.
So.
Here we are.
Key issues and takeaways.
So, Technology Preview 2
is available right now.
You can download it off of the website.
There's some URLs at the end.
And, of course, you can always just go to
apple.com slash acg slash xgrid,
and that URL is coming, and get it.
This is part of Tiger Server.
There will be enhanced functionality
that is part of Tiger Server,
as well as some components
will be part of Tiger.
So stay tuned to see sort
of how we package this up.
But Xgrid is part of Tiger, Tiger Server.
The agents themselves,
because we realize that a
lot of us especially have
Panther clients out there running,
and it's not feasible to imagine
that every single Panther client
will be updated instantly to Tiger,
although we certainly
hope that's the case.
If you're doing desktop recovery,
the agents will run on Panther as well.
And we really, really,
really want your feedback.
That's why we put TP2,
TP1 and TP2 out to the whole community.
Use it.
There's bugs that we know about.
I'm sure there's bugs
we don't know about,
and we want to fix those and
get this to be great quality.
So first of all, download TP2,
Xgrid right now, or take the information
you've learned today,
think about it, send your feedback to the
addresses that are shown here.
If you're a user of Xgrid,
there's a great user list in
an archive through our email
system that you can look through,
lots of posts from Charles and
others on things that they found out,
as well as just the generic
feedback that David and I read.
So, first of all, download TP2, TP1, TP2,
and TP2 out to the whole community.
Use it.
There's bugs that we know about,
and we certainly hope that's the case.
And if you need more information,
of course, go to the website.
This is obviously in your
kits and on the web page.
And give us a call.
Lastly, I want to also thank and bring up
here for the QA James Reynolds from
the University of Utah,
who has kindly worked with us to
put together the demonstration
that you can see running right
now in the Enterprise IT Lab.
And we have harvested the
power of a number of machines
running around WWDC right now.
And we've built a grid that's
roughly plus or minus 10,
depending on whether these machines
are being used by someone else or not,
roughly about 100 gigahertz.
And actually,
it's a little bit more than that.
And what James has done is provide
us with a number of scripts
and some interesting models.
And he's doing a massively distributed
Povray render of a 3300-frame movie,
I think.
And as the show has been going on,
that movie has been
getting longer and longer.
It's really quite beautiful.
So check that out in the Enterprise IT.
Lab.